# PVD_German
This is the translation of the English language Personal Values Dictionary (PVD), a theory-driven word count dictionary developed to identify references to Schwartz's 10 basic human values in text data (Ponizovskiy et al., 2020).   


The original dictionary by Ponizovskiy et al. (2020) consists of over 1,000 value-laden terms that were selected and validated through a rigorous multi-stage process involving expert ratings, exploratory factor analysis, and testing across multiple text corpora totaling over 525 million words from over 180,000 individuals. Initial expert raters assigned candidate words drawn from Schwartz's questionnaires, existing value lexicons, and common usage to the 10 value categories. The provisional dictionary was then refined using exploratory factor analysis to ensure words assigned to each value category reliably co-occurred in natural language. The final PVD demonstrated high internal consistency (α = .80-.99) across values and text types and showed expected patterns of correlations between value types that align with Schwartz's theoretical quasi-circumplex structure. Small to moderate but consistent correlations (r = .1 - .4) were found between dictionary scores and self-reported values for 7 out of 10 value types, providing evidence of concurrent validity (Ponizovskiy et al., 2020). 
We followed the standard procedure for the translation of LIWC dictionaries (Meier et al., 2019) when developing a German language version of the original English PVD. German has a higher morphological complexity than English due to its extensive case system, gender marking, and verbal conjugations. Hence, to ensure capturing the various versions of a word, the German version of the PVD had to undergo ‘stemming’ – shortening the terms by adding an asterisk to the stem of the word (Karls et al., 2018). For example, 'outrageous' is translated into 'unverschämt*', to capture variations of 'unverschämt', like 'der unverschämten' or 'die unverschämte'. Some terms were added if several translations were possible, resulting in the German dictionary being more extensive than the English original. 

Links..
Original Personal Values Dictionary publication by Ponizovskiy et al. (2020)  https://doi.org/10.1002/per.2294
OSF materials https://osf.io/vt8nf 
